In the last lecture, we started simple.
We hooked up this mail input field with our mail property here in our vue instance, that is great
start,
it shows us that we use v-model to connect our html input with our property, two-way binding that
is. I also explained that vuejs will magically update it correctly.
Now let's dive a bit deeper and let's say I don't only want to have this email property, instead I want
to have a user data object here which then has an email field and what else have we got here,
we also get a password and an age.
So when I group these three inputs here together, so that we have them in one object down there,
so that would be the email here, that will be the password and then that would be the age, that should
be grouped together
and therefore I can delete this and age shall actually not be a string but a number
and let's pre-populate this with a default number, 27 here that is my real age and I want to prepopulate
the form with that.
Now with that object set up, I can simply bind to that by accessing my object here, user data.
email now,
now I'm binding to a property in an object and that's perfectly valid.
I can now take this approach and also hook up my password with v-model here to also store it in the
user data and then here in the password field
and well for the age, we want to do the same. For the age,
we also want to hook this up to user data and then age
in this case.
Now if I save this and we head over, we see that age is indeed pre-populated with that 27 I set
up down there as a default value.
Now I can also fill out all the other fields of course,
enter my secret password and well now, we're not seeing it down there.
The reason for that of course simply is that I still use e-mail here but that changed to user data.
email,
it's an object now and I'm not outputting it for password and age.
So let's do that, user data
email and also output user data age here, like that.
Now I save this and head back,
we now see the values populated in this data box down there.
This is how we can use a more complex object to nest our properties and how to pre populate a field by
simply setting the property initially.
Now as you will see, I can of course overwrite this,
if I set this to 30, it's 30 down there too.
So this is how we can use this set up.